TEXT 1:
articles\Apophis asteroid will not hit Earth for 100 years, Nasa says.txt

Earthlings can breathe a sigh of relief after US space agency Nasa confirmed the planet was "safe" from a once-feared asteroid for the next 100 years at least.Nasa had deemed Apophis to be one of the most dangerous asteroids to Earth after its discovery in 2004.Close calls in 2029 and 2036 were predicted and later ruled out. A slight threat still remained for 2068.But now Nasa has dismissed that threat based on new analysis of the asteroid.
"A 2068 impact is not in the realm of possibility any more, and our calculations don't show any impact risk for at least the next 100 years," Davide Farnocchia, a scientist who studies near-Earth objects for Nasa, said in a statement on Friday.Named after the ancient Egyptian god of chaos and darkness, Apophis is estimated to measure 340m (1,100ft) across - about the length of three UK football pitches.The asteroid recently made a distant flyby of Earth on 5 March, passing within 17 million km (10 million miles) of the planet.Astronomers were able to use radar observations to refine their estimate of the asteroid's orbit around the Sun, allowing them to confidently rule out any impact risk in 2068 and long after."When I started working with asteroids after college, Apophis was the poster child for hazardous asteroids," said Mr Farnocchia. "There's a certain sense of satisfaction to see it removed from the risk list."He said Nasa was "looking forward to the science we might uncover during its close approach in 2029".
An unprecedented close-up
The close approach Mr Farnocchia referred to will happen on 13 April, 2029. On that date, the asteroid is expected to pass within 32,000 km of the Earth's surface.That is about one-tenth of the distance between the Earth and the Moon.During that 2029 close approach, Apophis will be visible to observers on the ground in the Eastern Hemisphere of Earth, which includes Asia, Africa and parts of Europe.No telescope or binoculars will be required, unlike for Nasa's 5 March observation.Still, even on that occasion, the radar images of the asteroid had "remarkable resolution", the agency said."If we had binoculars as powerful as this radar, we would be able to sit in Los Angeles and read a dinner menu at a restaurant in New York," Nasa scientist Marina Brozovic said.
Three potentially dangerous asteroids
Nasa keeps track of asteroids that could one day make threatening close approaches to Earth, designating them as Potentially Hazardous Asteroids (PHA).They all have codenames befitting robots from the Star Wars film series. Here are three.
1950 DA
Asteroid 1950 DA was discovered on 23 February 1950, before fading from viewIt was eventually rediscovered half a century later, allowing scientists to make new calculations about the 1.3km asteroidA potentially close Earth approach on 16 March, 2880 was identifiedBut the odds of a direct hit are long. Nasa said there is a 0.012% chance of Earth impact
2010 RF12
2010 RF12 tops Nasa's watch-list in terms of the probability of Earth impactThere is a 4.7% chance of a hit by the asteroid, which is estimated to measure 7m in diameterNasa predicts that the first potential impact could happen on 5 September, 2095That sounds more scary that it is, though. Because the asteroid is relatively small, it would not pose a major threat to Earth, scientists say
2012 HG2
This asteroid's first potential Earth impact could happen on 12 February, 2052, Nasa predicts.Measuring about 14m in diameter, 2012 HG2 has the highest number of potential Earth impacts on Nasa's watch-list. Again, because the asteroid is relatively small, it would probably burn up in Earth's atmosphere.
SUMMARY 1:
Earthlings can breathe a sigh of relief after US space agency Nasa confirmed the planet was "safe" from a once-feared asteroid for the next 100 years at least.Nasa had deemed Apophis to be one of the most dangerous asteroids to Earth after its discovery in 2004.Close calls in 2029 and 2036 were predicted and later ruled out. A slight threat still remained for 2068.But now Nasa has dismissed that threat based on new analysis of the asteroid. "A 2068 impact is not in the realm of possibility any more, and our calculations don't show any impact risk for at least the next 100 years," Davide Farnocchia, a scientist who studies near-Earth objects for Nasa, said in a statement on Friday.Named after the ancient Egyptian god of chaos and darkness, Apophis is estimated to measure 340m (1,100ft) across - about the length of three UK football pitches.The asteroid recently made a distant flyby of Earth on 5 March, passing within 17 million km (10 million miles) of the planet.Astronomers were able to use radar observations to refine their estimate of the asteroid's orbit around the Sun, allowing them to confidently rule out any impact risk in 2068 and long after. "When I started working with asteroids after college, Apophis was the poster child for hazardous asteroids," said Mr Farnocchia. "There's a certain sense of satisfaction to see it removed from the risk list. "He said Nasa was "looking forward to the science we might uncover during its close approach in 2029". An unprecedented close-up The close approach Mr Farnocchia referred to will happen on 13 April, 2029. On that date, the asteroid is expected to pass within 32,000 km of the Earth's surface.That is about one-tenth of the distance between the Earth and the Moon.During that 2029 close approach, Apophis will be visible to observers on the ground in the Eastern Hemisphere of Earth, which includes Asia, Africa and parts of Europe.No telescope or binoculars will be required, unlike for Nasa's 5 March observation.Still, even on that occasion, the radar images of the asteroid had "remarkable resolution", the agency said. "If we had binoculars as powerful as this radar, we would be able to sit in Los Angeles and read a dinner menu at a restaurant in New York," Nasa scientist Marina Brozovic said. Three potentially dangerous asteroids Nasa keeps track of asteroids that could one day make threatening close approaches to Earth, designating them as Potentially Hazardous Asteroids (PHA).They all have codenames befitting robots from the Star Wars film series. Here are three. 1950 DA Asteroid 1950 DA was discovered on 23 February 1950, before fading from viewIt was eventually rediscovered half a century later, allowing scientists to make new calculations about the 1.3km asteroidA potentially close Earth approach on 16 March, 2880 was identifiedBut the odds of a direct hit are long. Nasa said there is a 0.012% chance of Earth impact 2010 RF12 2010 RF12 tops Nasa's watch-list in terms of the probability of Earth impactThere is a 4.7% chance of a hit by the asteroid, which is estimated to measure 7m in diameterNasa predicts that the first potential impact could happen on 5 September, 2095That sounds more scary that it is, though. Because the asteroid is relatively small, it would not pose a major threat to Earth, scientists say 2012 HG2 This asteroid's first potential Earth impact could happen on 12 February, 2052, Nasa predicts.Measuring about 14m in diameter, 2012 HG2 has the highest number of potential Earth impacts on Nasa's watch-list. Again, because the asteroid is relatively small, it would probably burn up in Earth's atmosphere.

TEXT 2:
articles\AstraZeneca Is there a blood clot risk.txt

Unusual blood clots in the brain have been detected in a handful of people after they were injected with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.These "cerebral venous sinus thromboses" or CVSTs have led some countries - including Germany, France and Canada - to restrict who can be given the jab. The World Health Organization and the European Medicines Agency say the benefits of the vaccine outweigh any risks.Scientists and medicines safety regulators around the world are trying to figure out if the vaccine is genuinely causing these strokes, how big any risk might be and what that might mean for vaccination programmes.
Is the vaccine causing clots?At the moment, we do not know.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA), which has been reviewing the safety data, says it is "not proven, but is possible".The organisation has to figure out whether the reported clots are a side-effect or a coincidence that would have happened naturally. This is incredibly hard when dealing with rare events. If, on the other hand, one in every 10,000 people was having serious blood clots then the answer would be obvious.I have spoken to respected scientists some of whom are sceptical, others increasingly convinced.Some point to the highly unusual nature of the clots as a sign something could be going on. They are often appearing at the same time as low levels of blood platelets, which are one of the main components of a clot, and antibodies linked to other clotting disorders appearing in the blood.Others say there is not enough proof and the reported cases could plausibly be down to Covid, which itself is linked to abnormal clotting.
How big might the risk be?
It remains entirely possible the risk is zero as vaccines are not proven to cause the brain clots.Germany's Paul Ehrlich Institute has reported 31 cerebral venous sinus thromboses and nine deaths out of 2.7 million people vaccinated there.The most recent UK data reported 30 clots linked with low platelet counts and seven deaths out of 18 million people vaccinated.The European Medicines Agency, which has assessed data from around the world, estimates there is around a one in 100,000 risk of a CVST in people under the age of 60 who have been given the AstraZeneca vaccine.The organisation's head of safety monitoring, Dr Peter Arlett, said that was "more than we would expect to see".However, it is uncertain what the background rate of these blood clots in the brain truly is. Estimates vary from around two cases per million people every year to nearly 16 in every million in normal times and coronavirus itself may be causing them too.
Why is there a difference between the UK and Germany?
You might expect to see the same numbers of CVSTs in different countries if they were genuinely being caused by the vaccine. Yet the UK has reported roughly the same number of cases despite giving the vaccine to nearly seven times as many people as Germany.One argument is the type of people being vaccinated is different.The UK has, largely, been working from the oldest age groups down, while Germany was one of the countries that initially refused to use the vaccine in the over 65s because of a lack of trial data. Instead nearly 90% of Germans given AstraZeneca are thought to be under 60.Side-effects in general tend to be more severe in younger people as they have a stronger immune response, which has been one speculated reason why the UK has had fewer cases.However, CVSTs are inherently more common in younger women and taking the pill increases the risk. So the natural risk levels - whether people are vaccinated or not - could have a role too.Teasing all this apart is challenging, but the EMA said it had found no specific risk factors such as age, gender or medical history.
Is the AstraZeneca vaccine safe?
Nothing in medicine in completely safe and even therapies that are highly toxic are used in the right circumstance.Chemotherapy drugs have brutal side effects, but are hugely valuable; and even over-the-counter painkillers like paracetamol and ibuprofen have severe side-effects, they are just incredibly rare.What you need to know about vaccine safetyThe real decision is always whether the benefits outweigh the risks.This is particularly challenging in a pandemic. Normally medicine would rely on the "precautionary principle" to prove adequate safety before giving a new medicine to large numbers of people. But in a pandemic, any delays in vaccinating people will also cost lives.Based on the Germany data alone, if you vaccinate a million people then you would expect 12 to have a blood clot and four of them to die.But if a million 60-year-olds catch coronavirus then around 20,000 would die of Covid-19. If a million 40-year-olds catch coronavirus then around 1,000 die. It would be a few hundred people in their 30s.The benefits of vaccination clearly increase with age and countries like Germany and Canada have allowed the AstraZeneca vaccine to be used in older age-groups. These decisions will also be driven by which alternative vaccines they have available and who still needs to be immunised. The world is scrutinising the data intensely, but clarity will still take time.
SUMMARY 2:
Unusual blood clots in the brain have been detected in a handful of people after they were injected with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.These "cerebral venous sinus thromboses" or CVSTs have led some countries - including Germany, France and Canada - to restrict who can be given the jab. The World Health Organization and the European Medicines Agency say the benefits of the vaccine outweigh any risks.Scientists and medicines safety regulators around the world are trying to figure out if the vaccine is genuinely causing these strokes, how big any risk might be and what that might mean for vaccination programmes. Is the vaccine causing clots?At the moment, we do not know. The European Medicines Agency (EMA), which has been reviewing the safety data, says it is "not proven, but is possible".The organisation has to figure out whether the reported clots are a side-effect or a coincidence that would have happened naturally. This is incredibly hard when dealing with rare events. If, on the other hand, one in every 10,000 people was having serious blood clots then the answer would be obvious.I have spoken to respected scientists some of whom are sceptical, others increasingly convinced.Some point to the highly unusual nature of the clots as a sign something could be going on. They are often appearing at the same time as low levels of blood platelets, which are one of the main components of a clot, and antibodies linked to other clotting disorders appearing in the blood.Others say there is not enough proof and the reported cases could plausibly be down to Covid, which itself is linked to abnormal clotting. How big might the risk be? It remains entirely possible the risk is zero as vaccines are not proven to cause the brain clots.Germany's Paul Ehrlich Institute has reported 31 cerebral venous sinus thromboses and nine deaths out of 2.7 million people vaccinated there.The most recent UK data reported 30 clots linked with low platelet counts and seven deaths out of 18 million people vaccinated.The European Medicines Agency, which has assessed data from around the world, estimates there is around a one in 100,000 risk of a CVST in people under the age of 60 who have been given the AstraZeneca vaccine.The organisation's head of safety monitoring, Dr Peter Arlett, said that was "more than we would expect to see".However, it is uncertain what the background rate of these blood clots in the brain truly is. Estimates vary from around two cases per million people every year to nearly 16 in every million in normal times and coronavirus itself may be causing them too. Why is there a difference between the UK and Germany? You might expect to see the same numbers of CVSTs in different countries if they were genuinely being caused by the vaccine. Yet the UK has reported roughly the same number of cases despite giving the vaccine to nearly seven times as many people as Germany.One argument is the type of people being vaccinated is different.The UK has, largely, been working from the oldest age groups down, while Germany was one of the countries that initially refused to use the vaccine in the over 65s because of a lack of trial data. Instead nearly 90% of Germans given AstraZeneca are thought to be under 60.Side-effects in general tend to be more severe in younger people as they have a stronger immune response, which has been one speculated reason why the UK has had fewer cases.However, CVSTs are inherently more common in younger women and taking the pill increases the risk. So the natural risk levels - whether people are vaccinated or not - could have a role too.Teasing all this apart is challenging, but the EMA said it had found no specific risk factors such as age, gender or medical history. Is the AstraZeneca vaccine safe? Nothing in medicine in completely safe and even therapies that are highly toxic are used in the right circumstance.Chemotherapy drugs have brutal side effects, but are hugely valuable; and even over-the-counter painkillers like paracetamol and ibuprofen have severe side-effects, they are just incredibly rare.What you need to know about vaccine safetyThe real decision is always whether the benefits outweigh the risks.This is particularly challenging in a pandemic. Normally medicine would rely on the "precautionary principle" to prove adequate safety before giving a new medicine to large numbers of people. But in a pandemic, any delays in vaccinating people will also cost lives.Based on the Germany data alone, if you vaccinate a million people then you would expect 12 to have a blood clot and four of them to die.But if a million 60-year-olds catch coronavirus then around 20,000 would die of Covid-19. If a million 40-year-olds catch coronavirus then around 1,000 die. It would be a few hundred people in their 30s.The benefits of vaccination clearly increase with age and countries like Germany and Canada have allowed the AstraZeneca vaccine to be used in older age-groups. These decisions will also be driven by which alternative vaccines they have available and who still needs to be immunised. The world is scrutinising the data intensely, but clarity will still take time.

TEXT 3:
articles\Can celebrities control their image online.txt

"I would really appreciate if you take that down. I'm a really private person."Actress Rachel Bilson has recalled her surprise on receiving this message from old school friend and fellow film star Rami Malek after she had posted online a throwback picture of the pair.Speaking on Dax Shepard's Armchair Expert podcast, she said she had shared the "super-nerdy" picture - taken on a school trip - in light-hearted support for Malek just before he won the Oscar for his role as Freddie Mercury in 2018's Bohemian Rhapsody.Bilson believed he would appreciate the gesture as "good friends". But Malek didn't react as anticipated. A week later Bilson received a blunt direct message asking for the picture to be removed.She said that despite taking it straight down and sending him an apology, she was "super-bummed" at how it harmed their relationship."I wrote to him, a really nice message, like, 'I'm so sorry. Go get the Oscar, you're doing amazing.' And I never [heard] anything back," she said."I'm a big fan of not taking yourself seriously, especially at that level of fame and talent. But look, he wants to be super-respected, it's his thing, so I respected it."
Rachel Bilson and Remi Malek
image captionBilson said she never heard again from Malek after the Instagram exchange.The exchange highlights the delicacy of posting old photos on social media without permission - particularly those that counter our present-day identities, says Brett Cullen, head of social media at Hatch PR.He says that while throwback photos have long been popular on social media - from Facebook's memories function to the #ThrowbackThursday hashtag - it's important to remember that we're "not all comfortable looking backwards", so it's always wise to get consent."Although a lot of people may share happy memories or photos of them goofing around at school because they want to remind themselves of positive feelings or to show the world proof that they are a certain type of character, others simply aren't," he says.And this is especially true when talking about a public figure such as Malek."Celebrities have finely crafted public images and social media is an important part of making or breaking that. There's a strategy behind why celebrities do what they do (or don't), particularly on social."Something coming out of the blue in an uncontrolled manner, bringing up something from the past which doesn't align with that strategy can present a challenge and a risk," says Cullen.
Rami Malek
image captionRami Malek won the Oscar for best actor for his performance as Freddie Mercury in 2018's Bohemian Rhapsody."Malek could have felt that the photo shared didn't represent his brand and didn't want to negatively impact on that. Having a strong brand can bring so many benefits beyond securing roles, there's wider commercial opportunities at play."Keeping control of that image, and the narrative of the brand, is therefore crucial for celebrities," he says.But just as it's become more important, it's also increasingly complicated in the age of the internet and social media. Here are other notable examples of stars who have fought to maintain control of their image.
Beyonce's Super Bowl controversy (2013)
The success of Beyonce's 2013 Super Bowl performance was also marred by online controversy.Soon after the show finished, the singer's team became unhappy with some of the photos circulating and her publicist attempted to limit their spread."There are some unflattering photos on your current feed that we are respectfully asking you to change," said an email to Buzzfeed.The request backfired. Not only did the website refuse, it published the exchange in an article titled "The 'Unflattering' Photos Beyoncé's Publicist Doesn't Want You To See."
Beyonce at the Grammy Awards
image captionA more flattering picture of Beyonce from the recent Grammy Awards
And while a similar request to Getty Images did see the photo agency remove the originals from its library, this did nothing to stem the circulation of those already bought and published.The case stands as an example of the so-called Streisand Effect. Named after singer Barbra Streisand's efforts to supress pictures of her Malibu home in 2003, it refers to attempts to hide or remove information unintentionally having the reverse effect and spark greater spread.
The perils of the Streisand effect
Social media consultant Matt Navarra says that increasingly celebrities who think they can "control" conversations about themselves on social media platforms find themselves sorely mistaken."In 2021, the sheer volume of posts, comments and clips shared publicly is colossal," he explains. "A lot of the conversations and sharing of content between friends happens in private messages and encrypted chat groups, out of reach of even the most determined agent seeking to protect a star's online persona."The rise of platforms like TikTok and Instagram Stories means everyone is a creator. Nowadays, we all have access to easy-to-use yet incredibly powerful tools to discover, edit, and share content in an instant."Once something about a celebrity is shared or discussed online, they are at the mercy of algorithms and memes - a potent combination far greater than the will of any celeb publicity team."
Axl Rose's meme battle (2016)
One celebrity to learn the power of meme culture is Guns N' Roses front man Axl Rose.When the '80s rock icons reunited for various tours throughout the 2010s, the singer, once known as a youthful rock pin-up but now in his 50s, fell victim to a slew of memes based on a photo of him looking noticeably sweatier and rounder-faced onstage.In an effort to wrestle back some sense of control, he issued takedown requests demanding that Google remove the now infamous photo associated with the "fat Axl Rose" meme from its search engines.He argued that under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the image - taken at a 2010 concert in Canada by Boris Minkevich and published in the Winnipeg Free Press - was his own intellectual property and therefore needed his approval and consent to be shared.
Axl Rose
image captionRose on stage during a different performance in 2010
Rose even hired intellectual property registry Web Sheriff to get the photo taken offline. It argued Minkevich never had any right to publish or post the photograph since he had signed a waiver before the concert.Stolen celebrity nudes prompt changes at 4ChanMinkevich said he was unable to remember six years on. "Either way, the photo was stolen off our website with no permission granted by the Winnipeg Free Press," he told reporters.Ultimately Rose's efforts were in vain. The meme was out of the bottle.
Emily Ratajkowski speaks out against photo-editing (2017)
But just as the internet has seen celebrities sometimes lose control of their image, social media can also empower - offering a platform for stars to dictate narratives in previously unprecedented ways.In 2017, US model Emily Ratajkowski used her Instagram account to call out French magazine Madame Figaro for altering her cover shoot photos in post-production."I, like so many of us, try every day to work past those insecurities. I was extremely disappointed to see my lips and breasts altered in Photoshop on this cover," she wrote alongside a comparison post of the original stills and final cover.Activist and actress Jameela Jamil similarly spoke out against the practice two years later. "It made me so mentally unwell trying to live up to this image in person. Airbrushing is the DEVIL," she said in an Instagram post analysing an old press shot."Social media has definitely allowed women to fight back against harmful, reality-skewing practices such as airbrushing and filtering imagery," says Sara McCorquodale, author of Influence: How Social Media Influencers Are Shaping Our Digital Future.
Jameela Jamil
image captionActress Jameela Jamil has used her platform on social media to call for body positivity."Celebrities such as Jamil and Ratajkowski have brilliantly held mainstream media to account for this and in the process revealed how little control they have had over their image."She says this has been eye-opening for many people and created space for conversations around everything from why women may feel a certain body shape is "right" to why we feel like we must hide skin conditions like acne.However, it's proved a sensitive balance, fraught with the potential for misinterpretation."The irony of course is that so much conversation and activism around this is happening on Instagram - a platform which became popular for making it easier to filter pictures," says McCorquodale."Filtering is fine if it is the individual's choice, but what we must achieve now is transparency on this - especially given how many young people are looking at social media and taking what they see and read as gospel."

SUMMARY 3:
"I would really appreciate if you take that down. I'm a really private person. "Actress Rachel Bilson has recalled her surprise on receiving this message from old school friend and fellow film star Rami Malek after she had posted online a throwback picture of the pair.Speaking on Dax Shepard's Armchair Expert podcast, she said she had shared the "super-nerdy" picture - taken on a school trip - in light-hearted support for Malek just before he won the Oscar for his role as Freddie Mercury in 2018's Bohemian Rhapsody.Bilson believed he would appreciate the gesture as "good friends". But Malek didn't react as anticipated. A week later Bilson received a blunt direct message asking for the picture to be removed.She said that despite taking it straight down and sending him an apology, she was "super-bummed" at how it harmed their relationship. "I wrote to him, a really nice message, like, 'I'm so sorry. Go get the Oscar, you're doing amazing.' And I never [heard] anything back," she said. "I'm a big fan of not taking yourself seriously, especially at that level of fame and talent. But look, he wants to be super-respected, it's his thing, so I respected it." Rachel Bilson and Remi Malek image captionBilson said she never heard again from Malek after the Instagram exchange.The exchange highlights the delicacy of posting old photos on social media without permission - particularly those that counter our present-day identities, says Brett Cullen, head of social media at Hatch PR.He says that while throwback photos have long been popular on social media - from Facebook's memories function to the #ThrowbackThursday hashtag - it's important to remember that we're "not all comfortable looking backwards", so it's always wise to get consent. "Although a lot of people may share happy memories or photos of them goofing around at school because they want to remind themselves of positive feelings or to show the world proof that they are a certain type of character, others simply aren't," he says.And this is especially true when talking about a public figure such as Malek. "Celebrities have finely crafted public images and social media is an important part of making or breaking that. There's a strategy behind why celebrities do what they do (or don't), particularly on social. "Something coming out of the blue in an uncontrolled manner, bringing up something from the past which doesn't align with that strategy can present a challenge and a risk," says Cullen. Rami Malek image captionRami Malek won the Oscar for best actor for his performance as Freddie Mercury in 2018's Bohemian Rhapsody. "Malek could have felt that the photo shared didn't represent his brand and didn't want to negatively impact on that. Having a strong brand can bring so many benefits beyond securing roles, there's wider commercial opportunities at play. "Keeping control of that image, and the narrative of the brand, is therefore crucial for celebrities," he says.But just as it's become more important, it's also increasingly complicated in the age of the internet and social media. Here are other notable examples of stars who have fought to maintain control of their image. Beyonce's Super Bowl controversy (2013) The success of Beyonce's 2013 Super Bowl performance was also marred by online controversy.Soon after the show finished, the singer's team became unhappy with some of the photos circulating and her publicist attempted to limit their spread. "There are some unflattering photos on your current feed that we are respectfully asking you to change," said an email to Buzzfeed.The request backfired. Not only did the website refuse, it published the exchange in an article titled "The 'Unflattering' Photos Beyoncé's Publicist Doesn't Want You To See." Beyonce at the Grammy Awards image captionA more flattering picture of Beyonce from the recent Grammy Awards And while a similar request to Getty Images did see the photo agency remove the originals from its library, this did nothing to stem the circulation of those already bought and published.The case stands as an example of the so-called Streisand Effect. Named after singer Barbra Streisand's efforts to supress pictures of her Malibu home in 2003, it refers to attempts to hide or remove information unintentionally having the reverse effect and spark greater spread. The perils of the Streisand effect Social media consultant Matt Navarra says that increasingly celebrities who think they can "control" conversations about themselves on social media platforms find themselves sorely mistaken. "In 2021, the sheer volume of posts, comments and clips shared publicly is colossal," he explains. "A lot of the conversations and sharing of content between friends happens in private messages and encrypted chat groups, out of reach of even the most determined agent seeking to protect a star's online persona. "The rise of platforms like TikTok and Instagram Stories means everyone is a creator. Nowadays, we all have access to easy-to-use yet incredibly powerful tools to discover, edit, and share content in an instant. "Once something about a celebrity is shared or discussed online, they are at the mercy of algorithms and memes - a potent combination far greater than the will of any celeb publicity team." Axl Rose's meme battle (2016) One celebrity to learn the power of meme culture is Guns N' Roses front man Axl Rose.When the '80s rock icons reunited for various tours throughout the 2010s, the singer, once known as a youthful rock pin-up but now in his 50s, fell victim to a slew of memes based on a photo of him looking noticeably sweatier and rounder-faced onstage.In an effort to wrestle back some sense of control, he issued takedown requests demanding that Google remove the now infamous photo associated with the "fat Axl Rose" meme from its search engines.He argued that under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the image - taken at a 2010 concert in Canada by Boris Minkevich and published in the Winnipeg Free Press - was his own intellectual property and therefore needed his approval and consent to be shared. Axl Rose image captionRose on stage during a different performance in 2010 Rose even hired intellectual property registry Web Sheriff to get the photo taken offline. It argued Minkevich never had any right to publish or post the photograph since he had signed a waiver before the concert.Stolen celebrity nudes prompt changes at 4ChanMinkevich said he was unable to remember six years on. "Either way, the photo was stolen off our website with no permission granted by the Winnipeg Free Press," he told reporters.Ultimately Rose's efforts were in vain. The meme was out of the bottle. Emily Ratajkowski speaks out against photo-editing (2017) But just as the internet has seen celebrities sometimes lose control of their image, social media can also empower - offering a platform for stars to dictate narratives in previously unprecedented ways.In 2017, US model Emily Ratajkowski used her Instagram account to call out French magazine Madame Figaro for altering her cover shoot photos in post-production. "I, like so many of us, try every day to work past those insecurities. I was extremely disappointed to see my lips and breasts altered in Photoshop on this cover," she wrote alongside a comparison post of the original stills and final cover.Activist and actress Jameela Jamil similarly spoke out against the practice two years later. "It made me so mentally unwell trying to live up to this image in person. Airbrushing is the DEVIL," she said in an Instagram post analysing an old press shot. "Social media has definitely allowed women to fight back against harmful, reality-skewing practices such as airbrushing and filtering imagery," says Sara McCorquodale, author of Influence: How Social Media Influencers Are Shaping Our Digital Future. Jameela Jamil image captionActress Jameela Jamil has used her platform on social media to call for body positivity. "Celebrities such as Jamil and Ratajkowski have brilliantly held mainstream media to account for this and in the process revealed how little control they have had over their image. "She says this has been eye-opening for many people and created space for conversations around everything from why women may feel a certain body shape is "right" to why we feel like we must hide skin conditions like acne.However, it's proved a sensitive balance, fraught with the potential for misinterpretation. "The irony of course is that so much conversation and activism around this is happening on Instagram - a platform which became popular for making it easier to filter pictures," says McCorquodale. "Filtering is fine if it is the individual's choice, but what we must achieve now is transparency on this - especially given how many young people are looking at social media and taking what they see and read as gospel."

TEXT 4:
articles\Covid Greece Waiting for the tourists to come back.txt

BBC News, Athens and Vienna
The Acropolis in Athens
The Acropolis has just reopened for tourists, and now Greece wants the season to startAll over Europe, people are waiting and hoping to find out whether foreign summer holidays will be possible. Many countries are currently banning or strongly discouraging them, and returning travellers have to quarantine on arrival.Greece is among those that are heavily reliant on tourism and looking to open up for foreign visitors who have been vaccinated or who have had a recent negative Covid test. With coronavirus cases still surging in many parts of Europe, the situation is uncertain.April is normally the start of the tourist season for boat owners at the dock of this harbour in Athens, but things are on hold because of the pandemic.
Harbour in Athens
The season would normally have begun at this harbour and Greece is looking to welcome tourists from next month.Eugene Theodoridis and his team rent out catamarans and yachts for trips to the Greek islands. Their clients come from the UK, the United States, Germany and South Africa."All through the winter, we have been preparing the boats in order for the tourists to come," Eugene told me. "We will be ready when the borders open and we can welcome all guests throughout the world."
Why tourism is so important to Greeks
Greece is hoping to open up to visitors in mid-May, but Eugene says it's not clear how many other countries will be ready to permit travel.
When can I go on holiday abroad or in the UK?
"You understand that this does not depend solely on us," he said. "A lot of nations need to agree on specific protocols in order to allow people to travel."At the moment, he says it is very difficult to plan anything.
Eugene Theodoridis BBC
It's really important to have answers on when and how people will travel. Because, at the end of the day, guests need to book tickets. This uncertainty doesn't help anyone.While coronavirus cases appear to be on the decline in the UK, many parts of Europe are seeing a surge in infections. There are still tough Covid restrictions in Greece. In downtown Athens, the restaurants and bars and tourist shops are shut.The locals are becoming increasingly frustrated. The tourist industry accounts for about a fifth of Greece's economy.Greece is planning to vaccinate all tourism workers by the summer. And it is leading calls for vaccination certificates or passports to allow foreign visitors to travel.The Minister of Culture, Lina Mendoni, believes the vaccination certificates are very important to make "everybody will feel really safe", so they can come and see Greece's archaeological sites and museums.
Lina Mendoni, culture minister BBC
Our motto is safety first. For the staff, of the archaeological sites and the museums and of course for the public.The EU is discussing plans for a common digital pass which will show whether people have been vaccinated, tested or have antibodies.
What are the vaccine passport plans for summer holidays in Europe?
Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is one of those strongly backing the measure. "Those who have been vaccinated should have full freedom," he told German newspaper Bild."But so should those who have just had corona, and are therefore immune. And also, all those who take a test and can prove that they have tested negative."
What to expect when travel resumes
At the moment, testing requirements for travellers and costs vary from country to country.Some European countries accept rapid lateral flow/antigen tests for entry while others insist on the more sensitive PCR tests, which take longer to process.
Bethany Bell on the Acropolis in Athens
Travelling between countries is currently a complex process, as our correspondent has found.PCR tests must be no older than 72 hours. That means it's important to book appointments at testing centres in advance, leaving up to 24 hours or more to receive the result that will allow you to board the plane.As I have experienced to my cost on work trips in recent months, not all laboratories deliver test results on time.On one occasion, I had a last-minute scramble to get a second test so that I could fly home to Vienna, after the first laboratory failed to deliver.If you happen to be travelling on a Monday or Tuesday, it can be very difficult in some places to find labs that are open on Sundays, and that can be a headache.A number of countries currently also insist on quarantines for people returning from foreign trips. European governments are hoping that such restrictions can eventually be eased, but that will depend on infection rates.
Centre of Athens under lockdown
The centre of Athens is quiet as Greeks await the return of touristsSome people are travelling. Several thousand German tourists flew to the Spanish island of Majorca ahead of the Easter weekend, despite the German government advising against travel.
How is Europe dealing with the third wave?
Dutch sign up in droves for Covid test holiday.Eurovision gets green light to allow 3,500 fans.In Athens, the Acropolis has just reopened after months of lockdown. On a beautiful spring day, it would normally be packed with tourists, but when I visited there were just a handful of people here, mainly locals.Wandering near the Parthenon temple, I met Laura Ferat from Milan in Italy, who studies classical Greek in Athens on the EU's Erasmus student programme.
Laura Ferat BBC
I am very happy because usually these kinds of places are very crowded. And now I have the chance to see them almost alone, as if they are here for me.
Laura Ferat, Italian student
She says she's optimistic about travel this summer."Travelling is one of the things that not just I but almost everyone misses. And so I really hope things will get better also with the hot weather. I'm very hopeful."

SUMMARY 4:
BBC News, Athens and Vienna The Acropolis in Athens The Acropolis has just reopened for tourists, and now Greece wants the season to startAll over Europe, people are waiting and hoping to find out whether foreign summer holidays will be possible. Many countries are currently banning or strongly discouraging them, and returning travellers have to quarantine on arrival.Greece is among those that are heavily reliant on tourism and looking to open up for foreign visitors who have been vaccinated or who have had a recent negative Covid test. With coronavirus cases still surging in many parts of Europe, the situation is uncertain.April is normally the start of the tourist season for boat owners at the dock of this harbour in Athens, but things are on hold because of the pandemic. Harbour in Athens The season would normally have begun at this harbour and Greece is looking to welcome tourists from next month.Eugene Theodoridis and his team rent out catamarans and yachts for trips to the Greek islands. Their clients come from the UK, the United States, Germany and South Africa. "All through the winter, we have been preparing the boats in order for the tourists to come," Eugene told me. "We will be ready when the borders open and we can welcome all guests throughout the world." Why tourism is so important to Greeks Greece is hoping to open up to visitors in mid-May, but Eugene says it's not clear how many other countries will be ready to permit travel. When can I go on holiday abroad or in the UK? "You understand that this does not depend solely on us," he said. "A lot of nations need to agree on specific protocols in order to allow people to travel. "At the moment, he says it is very difficult to plan anything. Eugene Theodoridis BBC It's really important to have answers on when and how people will travel. Because, at the end of the day, guests need to book tickets. This uncertainty doesn't help anyone.While coronavirus cases appear to be on the decline in the UK, many parts of Europe are seeing a surge in infections. There are still tough Covid restrictions in Greece. In downtown Athens, the restaurants and bars and tourist shops are shut.The locals are becoming increasingly frustrated. The tourist industry accounts for about a fifth of Greece's economy.Greece is planning to vaccinate all tourism workers by the summer. And it is leading calls for vaccination certificates or passports to allow foreign visitors to travel.The Minister of Culture, Lina Mendoni, believes the vaccination certificates are very important to make "everybody will feel really safe", so they can come and see Greece's archaeological sites and museums. Lina Mendoni, culture minister BBC Our motto is safety first. For the staff, of the archaeological sites and the museums and of course for the public.The EU is discussing plans for a common digital pass which will show whether people have been vaccinated, tested or have antibodies. What are the vaccine passport plans for summer holidays in Europe? Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is one of those strongly backing the measure. "Those who have been vaccinated should have full freedom," he told German newspaper Bild. "But so should those who have just had corona, and are therefore immune. And also, all those who take a test and can prove that they have tested negative." What to expect when travel resumes At the moment, testing requirements for travellers and costs vary from country to country.Some European countries accept rapid lateral flow/antigen tests for entry while others insist on the more sensitive PCR tests, which take longer to process. Bethany Bell on the Acropolis in Athens Travelling between countries is currently a complex process, as our correspondent has found.PCR tests must be no older than 72 hours. That means it's important to book appointments at testing centres in advance, leaving up to 24 hours or more to receive the result that will allow you to board the plane.As I have experienced to my cost on work trips in recent months, not all laboratories deliver test results on time.On one occasion, I had a last-minute scramble to get a second test so that I could fly home to Vienna, after the first laboratory failed to deliver.If you happen to be travelling on a Monday or Tuesday, it can be very difficult in some places to find labs that are open on Sundays, and that can be a headache.A number of countries currently also insist on quarantines for people returning from foreign trips. European governments are hoping that such restrictions can eventually be eased, but that will depend on infection rates. Centre of Athens under lockdown The centre of Athens is quiet as Greeks await the return of touristsSome people are travelling. Several thousand German tourists flew to the Spanish island of Majorca ahead of the Easter weekend, despite the German government advising against travel. How is Europe dealing with the third wave? Dutch sign up in droves for Covid test holiday.Eurovision gets green light to allow 3,500 fans.In Athens, the Acropolis has just reopened after months of lockdown. On a beautiful spring day, it would normally be packed with tourists, but when I visited there were just a handful of people here, mainly locals.Wandering near the Parthenon temple, I met Laura Ferat from Milan in Italy, who studies classical Greek in Athens on the EU's Erasmus student programme. Laura Ferat BBC I am very happy because usually these kinds of places are very crowded. And now I have the chance to see them almost alone, as if they are here for me. Laura Ferat, Italian student She says she's optimistic about travel this summer. "Travelling is one of the things that not just I but almost everyone misses. And so I really hope things will get better also with the hot weather. I'm very hopeful."

TEXT 5:
articles\Covid What is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.txt

Results from a long-awaited US trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine confirm that the shot is both safe and highly effective.The trial found it stopped people from falling seriously ill with Covid-19, and identified no safety issues regarding blood clots among the 32,000 volunteers who took part.Some EU countries recently paused rollout of the vaccine amid concerns about a possible link.What is the advice about blood clots?Regulators have carried out a review into recent reports that a very small number of recently immunised people had suffered an extremely rare form of blood clot - cerebral sinus vein thrombosis (CSVT) - in the brain.In the UK, five cases of CSVT - one of them fatal - were recorded among 11 million people who received the vaccine.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) received an additional 13 reports of CSVT. It can occur naturally and no link to the vaccine has been established.Both the UK regulator and the EMA concluded that the vaccine is safe and there is no evidence that the vaccine causes clots.As a precaution, regulators will continue to monitor the situation and advise symptoms, such as unusual bruising or persistent headache after vaccination, should prompt a medical check.
Covid infection can be serious and also make clots more likely.
How does this vaccine work?
It is made from a weakened version of a common cold virus (known as an adenovirus) from chimpanzees. It has been modified to look more like coronavirus - although it can't cause illness.Once injected, it teaches the body's immune system how to fight the real virus, should it need to.What you need to know about vaccine safety
How do the Covid vaccines compare?
When will you be eligible for the vaccine?
Unlike Pfizer's jab - which has to be kept at an extremely cold temperature (-70C) - the Oxford vaccine can be stored in a normal fridge. This makes it much easier to distribute.
Is the Oxford vaccine as good as the Pfizer?
Large trials showed the Pfizer vaccine was 95% effective, while the figure for the Oxford one was 62%.But directly comparing results is difficult because there are differences in the way the trials were carried out.No-one who received the Oxford vaccine was hospitalised or became seriously ill due to Covid.A recent study found a single dose of the Oxford vaccine offered 76% protection for three months, and this went up to 82% after the second dose.
Does it work in older people?
Some European countries initially offered the vaccine only to 18-64 year-olds because they said there was limited data on how well it protects the over-65s.Both Germany and France then reversed this stance, and recommended the vaccine for over-65s.The EMA approved the vaccine in January for use in all age groups, including older adults.
How long do vaccines protect against Covid?
It is not yet known how long protection lasts with any of the coronavirus vaccines.A study found that unvaccinated people who have had Covid, develop protection for at least six months. Vaccines are likely to provide stronger protection than this.It may be that people need annual vaccinations, as happens with the flu jab.
Which vaccine will I get?
You will not be given a choice about which vaccine you get.In the UK, recommendations on which groups get the vaccine are made by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunology.
Timetable showing how vulnerable groups will receive the vaccine. Updated 26 Feb.
Does the vaccine protect against new variants?
Experts are studying all of the current coronavirus vaccines to check how well they work against new, mutated variants of the virus that are emerging.Government's deputy chief medical officer, Jonathan Van Tam, says there is "plenty of evidence" the vaccines appear to be effective against the Kent variant that is dominant in the UK.There is less evidence about protection for other ones, such as the Brazil and the South Africa variants.A study based on about 2,000 people with the vaccine, suggests the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine offers limited protection against mild and moderate disease caused by the South Africa variant.South Africa has paused roll-out while it investigates further.There is no evidence to suggest it would not be effective at preventing more severe cases that need hospital treatment.UK scientists are working on new versions of the vaccine, to keep up with a virus that will inevitably keep mutating.

SUMMARY 5:
Results from a long-awaited US trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine confirm that the shot is both safe and highly effective.The trial found it stopped people from falling seriously ill with Covid-19, and identified no safety issues regarding blood clots among the 32,000 volunteers who took part.Some EU countries recently paused rollout of the vaccine amid concerns about a possible link.What is the advice about blood clots?Regulators have carried out a review into recent reports that a very small number of recently immunised people had suffered an extremely rare form of blood clot - cerebral sinus vein thrombosis (CSVT) - in the brain.In the UK, five cases of CSVT - one of them fatal - were recorded among 11 million people who received the vaccine.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) received an additional 13 reports of CSVT. It can occur naturally and no link to the vaccine has been established.Both the UK regulator and the EMA concluded that the vaccine is safe and there is no evidence that the vaccine causes clots.As a precaution, regulators will continue to monitor the situation and advise symptoms, such as unusual bruising or persistent headache after vaccination, should prompt a medical check. Covid infection can be serious and also make clots more likely. How does this vaccine work? It is made from a weakened version of a common cold virus (known as an adenovirus) from chimpanzees. It has been modified to look more like coronavirus - although it can't cause illness.Once injected, it teaches the body's immune system how to fight the real virus, should it need to.What you need to know about vaccine safety How do the Covid vaccines compare? When will you be eligible for the vaccine? Unlike Pfizer's jab - which has to be kept at an extremely cold temperature (-70C) - the Oxford vaccine can be stored in a normal fridge. This makes it much easier to distribute. Is the Oxford vaccine as good as the Pfizer? Large trials showed the Pfizer vaccine was 95% effective, while the figure for the Oxford one was 62%.But directly comparing results is difficult because there are differences in the way the trials were carried out.No-one who received the Oxford vaccine was hospitalised or became seriously ill due to Covid.A recent study found a single dose of the Oxford vaccine offered 76% protection for three months, and this went up to 82% after the second dose. Does it work in older people? Some European countries initially offered the vaccine only to 18-64 year-olds because they said there was limited data on how well it protects the over-65s.Both Germany and France then reversed this stance, and recommended the vaccine for over-65s.The EMA approved the vaccine in January for use in all age groups, including older adults. How long do vaccines protect against Covid? It is not yet known how long protection lasts with any of the coronavirus vaccines.A study found that unvaccinated people who have had Covid, develop protection for at least six months. Vaccines are likely to provide stronger protection than this.It may be that people need annual vaccinations, as happens with the flu jab. Which vaccine will I get? You will not be given a choice about which vaccine you get.In the UK, recommendations on which groups get the vaccine are made by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunology. Timetable showing how vulnerable groups will receive the vaccine. Updated 26 Feb. Does the vaccine protect against new variants? Experts are studying all of the current coronavirus vaccines to check how well they work against new, mutated variants of the virus that are emerging.Government's deputy chief medical officer, Jonathan Van Tam, says there is "plenty of evidence" the vaccines appear to be effective against the Kent variant that is dominant in the UK.There is less evidence about protection for other ones, such as the Brazil and the South Africa variants.A study based on about 2,000 people with the vaccine, suggests the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine offers limited protection against mild and moderate disease caused by the South Africa variant.South Africa has paused roll-out while it investigates further.There is no evidence to suggest it would not be effective at preventing more severe cases that need hospital treatment.UK scientists are working on new versions of the vaccine, to keep up with a virus that will inevitably keep mutating.

TEXT 6:
articles\Do 'maximisers' or 'satisficers' make better decisions.txt

There are two main types of decision-makers, experts say. Understanding which you are could help improve your choices.I've recently moved into a new flat in New York City – not the easiest of feats in the middle of a global pandemic.Moving is never simple; choosing a neighbourhood and setting your budget can be stressful. But right now it feels especially complicated, raising questions like, which moving companies are the best value – but also have the best Covid-19 guidelines? Do I get a bigger space in case social distancing drags on even longer? Is all hassle even worth it right now?Then there are the more fun decisions. What kind of furniture do I get – Mid-century modern? Is it worth buying an expensive mixer to perfect that pandemic-era sourdough, or is it too late for all that?These are decisions will shape my daily life for the next few years, so it’s imperative to get them right. Yet, making choices can feel paralysing. It’s easy to stress over the ‘right’ choice – and, in some cases, put off the decision altogether.Understanding the different ways people make decisions has helped put things in perspective. People tend to lean toward one of two categories: 'maximisers', who want to ensure they get the most out of the choices they make; and 'satisficers', who tend to adopt a ‘this is good enough’ approach.
Each comes with benefits and drawbacks – including impacting how happy you are.  Fortunately, there are also ways to ‘hack’ your decision-making process, allowing you to match the right approach to the importance of the choice. All kinds of decisions, big and small, bombard us throughout our daily lives. Some warrant more time and energy for deliberation than others (Credit: Alamy). All kinds of decisions, big and small, bombard us throughout our daily lives. Some warrant more time and energy for deliberation than others (Credit: Alamy)
Maximisers: 'make it perfect'.If you’re a maximiser, you’re likely to weigh choices carefully to assess which is the best one. This can, of course, lead to a great outcome – when maximisers make decisions, they're likely very informed. On paper, their decisions may look like the most logical or efficient, since they've spent so much time deliberating possibilities and potential results.But there are also drawbacks. These are people who "have trouble making decisions because they're trying to get it perfectly right", says Stephanie Preston, professor of psychology at the University of Michigan. "They want to maximise the outcome, so they lose a lot of time in the process."For example, say you're picking out a new television. If you're a maximiser, you might take a very long time assessing five different models, trying to decide which one will maximise your benefit. Do you get the one with the biggest screen, or save by choosing the cheapest? Going back and forth in your head over which one is the ‘correct’ one can lead to decision paralysis, leaving the person feeling like they still don't have enough information to make the best choice, and maybe never will.Once you finally decide, however, the maximiser mentality can also trigger decision regret."The process of deliberating and choosing one option after seriously considering others is not only very time-consuming, but also associated with post-decision regret and counterfactual thinking," says Sally Maitlis, professor of organisational behaviour and leadership at Oxford University's Saïd Business School. "How would it have been to have chosen the other thing?"That means once you buy that TV and you’re sitting there watching it, you may start second-guessing yourself: "I'm spending so much time at home these days. Shouldn't I have just bought the more expensive one with the bigger screen?" In fact, a series of studies showed that maximisers were more likely to be depressed, overly perfectionistic and prone to regret or self-blame.
Satisficers: 'it's good enough'.At the other end of the spectrum, you have ‘satisficers’: people who would rather make decisions quickly. Instead of the ‘best’ choice, they're fine with what's acceptable. The term combines the words 'satisfy' and 'suffice' and was first coined back in the 1950s by American psychologist Herbert Simon."The opposite of maximising is satisficing – someone who realises there are constraints, and you can't solve all of them, and you definitely can't solve all of them quickly," says Preston. "So, 'good enough' is the characteristic of decision-making for satisficers."Unlike maximisers, satisficers don't need a lot of options or information. They also rely less on outside sources, meaning they’re less likely to scour online reviews, or get as much information as possible when making decisions. They make decisions faster, weigh fewer choices and go with their gut."At restaurants, for example, I almost never look at the full menu," says Ellen Peters, director of the University of Oregon's Center for Science Communication Research, whose work focuses on decision-making. "I look around and see what other people have ordered. I listen to what people at my table are ordering. And then I choose among those entrées and appetisers. I satisfice, and I always end up with a good dinner."The drawback here is that satisficers may reach a decision quickly, but it may not necessarily be the ‘best’ outcome that gives them the maximum return. A 2006 study, for example, showed that recent university graduates with high maximising tendencies found jobs that paid starting salaries that were 20% higher than those of their satisficing peers. (That being said, maximisers reported being less satisfied with those jobs.)'Maximisers' spend ages weighing options and still might be dissatisfied. But experts say maximising is appropriate for big decisions, like a buying car or a house (Credit: Alamy').Maximisers' spend ages weighing options and still might be dissatisfied. But experts say maximising is appropriate for big decisions, like a buying car or a house. Which is best?"As a general rule, maximisers do better, but feel worse," says Barry Schwartz, professor emeritus of psychology at Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, who's researched and written extensively about maximisers and satisficers."[Maximisers] get better jobs, for example, but are less satisfied with the jobs they get. So the question to be asked is whether what is more important to you is the objective result or the subjective result."Another thing to keep in mind is that, like extroversion and introversion, most people lie somewhere between the two types. Which is good, because the best way to make decisions may be by combining maximiser and satisficer tendencies."In theory, the perfect mix would be to satisfice most of the time, and only maximise the decision process when the stakes are high," says Preston. In other words, look at all the options and study decisions that will greatly impact your life. "But then after making a careful choice, you have to return right away to thinking like a satisficer, because otherwise you will still be unhappy with your decision, however good.”Peters agrees. "With important choices – buying a house, even choosing a job – it's better to veer towards more maximising," she says. "For unimportant choices – buying a breakfast cereal, where to go for coffee – satisficing generally works quite well.""I think the best general advice is to avoid impulsive decisions and to avoid feeling the need to look at every option," says Schwartz. "Aristotle wrote of 'the golden mean' – in this case, the right amount of deliberation. People who are too impulsive should be less so, and people who are too deliberative should be less so. This is, of course, easier said than done."But there are ways: if you find yourself maximising too much, try eliminating some of the options. If you're satisficing too much, spend more time meditating on the decision, and the pros and cons of each possible outcome.In my case, I need to figure out which moving-related decisions are really worth worrying about. I’ve already made the big, existential choices – like choosing a neighbourhood and flat – so it's time to move on and enjoy the smaller decisions. Now to satisfice my way to some decent wall art.

SUMMARY 6:
All kinds of decisions, big and small, bombard us throughout our daily lives. There are two main types of decision-makers, experts say. Understanding which you are could help improve your choices.I've recently moved into a new flat in New York City – not the easiest of feats in the middle of a global pandemic.Moving is never simple; choosing a neighbourhood and setting your budget can be stressful. But right now it feels especially complicated, raising questions like, which moving companies are the best value – but also have the best Covid-19 guidelines? Do I get a bigger space in case social distancing drags on even longer? Is all hassle even worth it right now?Then there are the more fun decisions. What kind of furniture do I get – Mid-century modern? Is it worth buying an expensive mixer to perfect that pandemic-era sourdough, or is it too late for all that?These are decisions will shape my daily life for the next few years, so it’s imperative to get them right. Yet, making choices can feel paralysing. It’s easy to stress over the ‘right’ choice – and, in some cases, put off the decision altogether.Understanding the different ways people make decisions has helped put things in perspective. People tend to lean toward one of two categories: 'maximisers', who want to ensure they get the most out of the choices they make; and 'satisficers', who tend to adopt a ‘this is good enough’ approach. Each comes with benefits and drawbacks – including impacting how happy you are. Fortunately, there are also ways to ‘hack’ your decision-making process, allowing you to match the right approach to the importance of the choice. Some warrant more time and energy for deliberation than others (Credit: Alamy). Some warrant more time and energy for deliberation than others (Credit: Alamy) Maximisers: 'make it perfect'.If you’re a maximiser, you’re likely to weigh choices carefully to assess which is the best one. This can, of course, lead to a great outcome – when maximisers make decisions, they're likely very informed. On paper, their decisions may look like the most logical or efficient, since they've spent so much time deliberating possibilities and potential results.But there are also drawbacks. These are people who "have trouble making decisions because they're trying to get it perfectly right", says Stephanie Preston, professor of psychology at the University of Michigan. "They want to maximise the outcome, so they lose a lot of time in the process. "For example, say you're picking out a new television. If you're a maximiser, you might take a very long time assessing five different models, trying to decide which one will maximise your benefit. Do you get the one with the biggest screen, or save by choosing the cheapest? Going back and forth in your head over which one is the ‘correct’ one can lead to decision paralysis, leaving the person feeling like they still don't have enough information to make the best choice, and maybe never will.Once you finally decide, however, the maximiser mentality can also trigger decision regret. "The process of deliberating and choosing one option after seriously considering others is not only very time-consuming, but also associated with post-decision regret and counterfactual thinking," says Sally Maitlis, professor of organisational behaviour and leadership at Oxford University's Saïd Business School. "How would it have been to have chosen the other thing? "That means once you buy that TV and you’re sitting there watching it, you may start second-guessing yourself: "I'm spending so much time at home these days. Shouldn't I have just bought the more expensive one with the bigger screen?" In fact, a series of studies showed that maximisers were more likely to be depressed, overly perfectionistic and prone to regret or self-blame. Satisficers: 'it's good enough'.At the other end of the spectrum, you have ‘satisficers’: people who would rather make decisions quickly. Instead of the ‘best’ choice, they're fine with what's acceptable. The term combines the words 'satisfy' and 'suffice' and was first coined back in the 1950s by American psychologist Herbert Simon. "The opposite of maximising is satisficing – someone who realises there are constraints, and you can't solve all of them, and you definitely can't solve all of them quickly," says Preston. "So, 'good enough' is the characteristic of decision-making for satisficers. "Unlike maximisers, satisficers don't need a lot of options or information. They also rely less on outside sources, meaning they’re less likely to scour online reviews, or get as much information as possible when making decisions. They make decisions faster, weigh fewer choices and go with their gut. "At restaurants, for example, I almost never look at the full menu," says Ellen Peters, director of the University of Oregon's Center for Science Communication Research, whose work focuses on decision-making. "I look around and see what other people have ordered. I listen to what people at my table are ordering. And then I choose among those entrées and appetisers. I satisfice, and I always end up with a good dinner. "The drawback here is that satisficers may reach a decision quickly, but it may not necessarily be the ‘best’ outcome that gives them the maximum return. A 2006 study, for example, showed that recent university graduates with high maximising tendencies found jobs that paid starting salaries that were 20% higher than those of their satisficing peers. (That being said, maximisers reported being less satisfied with those jobs. )'Maximisers' spend ages weighing options and still might be dissatisfied. But experts say maximising is appropriate for big decisions, like a buying car or a house (Credit: Alamy').Maximisers' spend ages weighing options and still might be dissatisfied. But experts say maximising is appropriate for big decisions, like a buying car or a house. Which is best? "As a general rule, maximisers do better, but feel worse," says Barry Schwartz, professor emeritus of psychology at Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, who's researched and written extensively about maximisers and satisficers. "[Maximisers] get better jobs, for example, but are less satisfied with the jobs they get. So the question to be asked is whether what is more important to you is the objective result or the subjective result. "Another thing to keep in mind is that, like extroversion and introversion, most people lie somewhere between the two types. Which is good, because the best way to make decisions may be by combining maximiser and satisficer tendencies. "In theory, the perfect mix would be to satisfice most of the time, and only maximise the decision process when the stakes are high," says Preston. In other words, look at all the options and study decisions that will greatly impact your life. "But then after making a careful choice, you have to return right away to thinking like a satisficer, because otherwise you will still be unhappy with your decision, however good.”Peters agrees. "With important choices – buying a house, even choosing a job – it's better to veer towards more maximising," she says. "For unimportant choices – buying a breakfast cereal, where to go for coffee – satisficing generally works quite well. ""I think the best general advice is to avoid impulsive decisions and to avoid feeling the need to look at every option," says Schwartz. "Aristotle wrote of 'the golden mean' – in this case, the right amount of deliberation. People who are too impulsive should be less so, and people who are too deliberative should be less so. This is, of course, easier said than done. "But there are ways: if you find yourself maximising too much, try eliminating some of the options. If you're satisficing too much, spend more time meditating on the decision, and the pros and cons of each possible outcome.In my case, I need to figure out which moving-related decisions are really worth worrying about. I’ve already made the big, existential choices – like choosing a neighbourhood and flat – so it's time to move on and enjoy the smaller decisions. Now to satisfice my way to some decent wall art.

TEXT 7:
articles\Facebook leak Irish regulator probes 'old' data dump.txt

Mark Zuckerberg gestures with arms open in front of a padlock symbol on stage during a privacy speech. A data leak involving personal details of hundreds of millions of Facebook users is being reviewed by Ireland's Data Protection Commission (DPC).The database is believed to contain a mix of Facebook profile names, phone numbers, locations and other facts about more than 530 million people.Facebook says the data is "old", from a previously-reported leak in 2019.But the Irish DPC said it will work with Facebook, to make sure that is the case.Ireland's regulator is critical to such investigations, as Facebook's European headquarters is in Dublin, making it an important regulator for the EU.
The most recent data dump appears to contain the entire compromised database from the previous leak, which Facebook said it found and fixed more than a year and a half ago.But the dataset has now been published for free in a hacking forum, making it much more widely available.It covers 533 million people in 106 countries, according to researchers who have viewed the data. That includes 11 million Facebook users in the UK and more than 30 million Americans.Not every piece of data is available for every user, but the large scale of the leak has prompted concern from cyber-security experts.
Facebook sued for 'losing control' of users’ data
WhatsApp to limit service to all who reject terms
Zuckerberg pledges 'privacy-focused' Facebook
The DPC's deputy commissioner Graham Doyle said the recent data dump "appears to be" from the previous leak - and that the data-scraping behind it had happened before the EU's GDPR privacy legislation was in effect."However, following this weekend's media reporting we are examining the matter to establish whether the dataset referred to is indeed the same as that reported in 2019," he added.
Phone issues
Despite the claims of the data being "old", some security researchers remain concerned due to the unchanging nature of the data involved.Phone numbers, for example, are unlikely to have changed for many people in the past two to three years, and other information - such as a date of birth or hometown - never change.Alon Gal, a well-known personality in cyber-security circles who tweets as @UnderTheBreach, wrote that the phone number database first appeared in January, where hackers could look up the phone database for a small fee.But the widespread leak of the database "means that if you have a Facebook account, it is extremely likely the phone number used for the account was leaked," he tweeted."I have yet to see Facebook acknowledging this absolute negligence of your data," he added.
Presentational grey line
Analysis box by Joe Tidy, Cyber reporter
This is a cautionary tale on a colossal scale.
It's actually terrifyingly common for companies to store customer data in large, unsecured databases.Often they are discovered by well-meaning security researchers and are either deleted or made safe swiftly before the bad guys stumble upon the treasure trove.However, sometimes it's too late.This case highlights that a company's defence "we've fixed it now" is not good enough.The horse had bolted long before the stable doors were closed. And clearly, the horse has been having a field day for years since.The database has likely changed criminal hands many times before now being offered for free.Facebook may claim this is "an old story", but clearly it's one that keeps coming back to bite it - and, more importantly, its users.
Presentational grey line
Troy Hunt, a Microsoft executive who runs HaveIBeenPwned - an online service for users to check if their information has been involved in a data breach - said queries were six times higher than normal since news of the database's release broke.
He also suggested that the leaked dataset could be very useful "for a targeted attack where you know someone's name and country" - though it would be much harder to use for a blanket mass cyber-attack."But for spam based on using phone number alone, it's gold," he added."Not just SMS, there are heaps of services that just require a phone number these days and now there's hundreds of millions of them conveniently categorised by country with nice mail merge fields like name and gender."

SUMMARY 7:
Mark Zuckerberg gestures with arms open in front of a padlock symbol on stage during a privacy speech. A data leak involving personal details of hundreds of millions of Facebook users is being reviewed by Ireland's Data Protection Commission (DPC).The database is believed to contain a mix of Facebook profile names, phone numbers, locations and other facts about more than 530 million people.Facebook says the data is "old", from a previously-reported leak in 2019.But the Irish DPC said it will work with Facebook, to make sure that is the case.Ireland's regulator is critical to such investigations, as Facebook's European headquarters is in Dublin, making it an important regulator for the EU. The most recent data dump appears to contain the entire compromised database from the previous leak, which Facebook said it found and fixed more than a year and a half ago.But the dataset has now been published for free in a hacking forum, making it much more widely available.It covers 533 million people in 106 countries, according to researchers who have viewed the data. That includes 11 million Facebook users in the UK and more than 30 million Americans.Not every piece of data is available for every user, but the large scale of the leak has prompted concern from cyber-security experts. Facebook sued for 'losing control' of users’ data WhatsApp to limit service to all who reject terms Zuckerberg pledges 'privacy-focused' Facebook The DPC's deputy commissioner Graham Doyle said the recent data dump "appears to be" from the previous leak - and that the data-scraping behind it had happened before the EU's GDPR privacy legislation was in effect. "However, following this weekend's media reporting we are examining the matter to establish whether the dataset referred to is indeed the same as that reported in 2019," he added. Phone issues Despite the claims of the data being "old", some security researchers remain concerned due to the unchanging nature of the data involved.Phone numbers, for example, are unlikely to have changed for many people in the past two to three years, and other information - such as a date of birth or hometown - never change.Alon Gal, a well-known personality in cyber-security circles who tweets as @UnderTheBreach, wrote that the phone number database first appeared in January, where hackers could look up the phone database for a small fee.But the widespread leak of the database "means that if you have a Facebook account, it is extremely likely the phone number used for the account was leaked," he tweeted. "I have yet to see Facebook acknowledging this absolute negligence of your data," he added. Presentational grey line Analysis box by Joe Tidy, Cyber reporter This is a cautionary tale on a colossal scale. It's actually terrifyingly common for companies to store customer data in large, unsecured databases.Often they are discovered by well-meaning security researchers and are either deleted or made safe swiftly before the bad guys stumble upon the treasure trove.However, sometimes it's too late.This case highlights that a company's defence "we've fixed it now" is not good enough.The horse had bolted long before the stable doors were closed. And clearly, the horse has been having a field day for years since.The database has likely changed criminal hands many times before now being offered for free.Facebook may claim this is "an old story", but clearly it's one that keeps coming back to bite it - and, more importantly, its users. Presentational grey line Troy Hunt, a Microsoft executive who runs HaveIBeenPwned - an online service for users to check if their information has been involved in a data breach - said queries were six times higher than normal since news of the database's release broke. He also suggested that the leaked dataset could be very useful "for a targeted attack where you know someone's name and country" - though it would be much harder to use for a blanket mass cyber-attack. "But for spam based on using phone number alone, it's gold," he added. "Not just SMS, there are heaps of services that just require a phone number these days and now there's hundreds of millions of them conveniently categorised by country with nice mail merge fields like name and gender."

TEXT 8:
articles\Here is How You Can Help if You See Asian Americans Targeted by Racist Harassment.txt

As the COVID-19 pandemic rages on, Asian Americans continue to be targets of slurs and violence at increasing rates. Just recently, a woman waiting in line outside of a New York City bakery was violently shoved, requiring stitches after she hit her head. Another Asian woman was punched in the face on a Manhattan subway platform. An Asian man in Los Angeles County was beaten with his own cane at a bus stop. And eight people, including six Asian women, were shot to death in Atlanta-area spas. Many attacks appear fueled by xenophobia or false beliefs that Asians are somehow responsible for the virus, with some incidents being prosecuted as hate crimes.In the wake of this spate of violent, unprovoked attacks and harassment, Asian Americans are understandably watching their backs. Now the question is: Who’s on board to help? And what are the best ways to do so? Like a lot of other things, a little preparation can make a big difference. The phrase “bystander intervention” may conjure up visions of swooping in with fists flying, knocking out the bad guy, and saving the day, but real life is way more complicated than that.
Emily May of Hollaback, a group focused on combating harassment, says people have to make smart decisions when it comes to bystander intervention. The best efforts help the person who’s being targeted—they don’t teach the aggressor a lesson.
“Your priority is not being ‘right’ about how racist people are toward Asian people. You are right—they are racist toward Asian people. It is not okay,” she says, “but the immediate objective isn’t to educate the person who’s doing the harassing. Your goal is just to take care of that person who’s being harassed.” Also, she says, “you never want to harass the harasser. As a bystander, you really want to be the person who throws water on the fire.”You have lots of options for how to intervene safely.
Emily May: “At Hollaback, we have what we call the ‘Five Ds’ of bystander intervention: distract (creating a distraction to de-escalate the situation), delegate (finding somebody else to help you intervene), document (creating documentation of that incident), delay (checking in on the person afterward), and then the last one is direct (setting a boundary, saying, ‘Hey, that’s racist, leave her alone,’ and then turning your attention to take care of the person experiencing the harassment).”
Marita Etcubañez: “Some people might be comfortable taking the direct route, like stepping in and saying, ‘Hey, clearly, you’re making this person uncomfortable. You need to stand down’—not to get into a back-and-forth with them but just naming the behavior that’s problematic and hopefully getting the harasser to back off.…If it seems like someone might need help getting out of the situation, [you] could offer them your arm and help them exit, or cause a ruckus just to at least deflect the attention and maybe that could help to de-escalate the situation.”Sometimes just being present can make the difference
Emily May: “If you don’t speak the same language, what we often will advise is to just go and stand next to that person who’s experiencing the harassment, just showing them that you’re physically there, that you support them. But if that doesn’t feel safe, our research with Cornell University showed that even as little as giving somebody a knowing glance can actually reduce trauma related to harassment, and that’s something that of course works across all languages.…Fundamentally, bystander intervention is just about people taking care of people.”Maria Haberfeld: “Don’t walk away. Don’t say, ‘It’s not my business.’ But just make sure that you’re keeping your own safety.”If things have gotten physical, be very careful about stepping in.Emily May: “The first thing you want to do as a bystander is really to assess your safety. In most situations where people see a physical assault or a sexual assault, they’re not going to feel safe directly intervening. So in those situations, you want to think, Is there something else that I can do? I would not recommend getting physically involved in these situations unless you’re specifically trained to do that.”Marita Etcubañez: “You definitely have to safeguard your own safety first, and then of course, during COVID-19, you probably don’t want to get too close. So even if you are verbally trying to intervene, you probably still want to do it at some distance.”Maria Haberfeld: “The best thing is to step back and call the police. You never know if the person has a gun or a knife on them. They might not be using it as they’re harassing somebody, but it’s very possible that they can use it on you if you’re trying to step in and help. Someone might think, I am an expert in martial arts, so I’ll be able to neutralize this person. But if the person pulls a knife or a gun, you can be a black belt and it won’t help. If there are two or three or four of you, then maybe there is room to intervene, but strength in numbers becomes irrelevant if the person pulls a gun on you.”
Related Story
The person being targeted may refuse help or have concerns about calling policeEmily May: “Unless it is a medical emergency and if the harassment is verbal, we advise people to touch base with the person experiencing the harassment before they call the police because many communities—communities of color, immigrant communities, trans communities—may not feel safer with police presence.”Marita Etcubañez: “There’s lots of reasons why someone might not want [the authorities involved]. Maybe they’re scared you’re going to call an ambulance and they can’t afford it. In that case, you might want to think about what other kind of assistance can you offer…see if there are other people who might be willing to help, or say, ‘Can I call someone for you?’”Remember: It’s not up to you to blast the encounter on social media, but documenting can be helpfulEmily May: “We just ask that you give the documentation to the person being harassed, to leave them the choice as to what they want to do with it next, and really give that power back to them.”Marita Etcubañez: “The point that we make with documenting [is] it’s not for you to broadcast that video on social media, but rather, give it to the person who was experiencing the harassment and let them decide what they want to do.…If they want to blast it out, that’s what could be really helpful for them, but they should be the ones to decide.”

SUMMARY 8:
As the COVID-19 pandemic rages on, Asian Americans continue to be targets of slurs and violence at increasing rates. Just recently, a woman waiting in line outside of a New York City bakery was violently shoved, requiring stitches after she hit her head. Another Asian woman was punched in the face on a Manhattan subway platform. An Asian man in Los Angeles County was beaten with his own cane at a bus stop. And eight people, including six Asian women, were shot to death in Atlanta-area spas. Many attacks appear fueled by xenophobia or false beliefs that Asians are somehow responsible for the virus, with some incidents being prosecuted as hate crimes.In the wake of this spate of violent, unprovoked attacks and harassment, Asian Americans are understandably watching their backs. Now the question is: Who’s on board to help? And what are the best ways to do so? Like a lot of other things, a little preparation can make a big difference. The phrase “bystander intervention” may conjure up visions of swooping in with fists flying, knocking out the bad guy, and saving the day, but real life is way more complicated than that. Emily May of Hollaback, a group focused on combating harassment, says people have to make smart decisions when it comes to bystander intervention. The best efforts help the person who’s being targeted—they don’t teach the aggressor a lesson. “Your priority is not being ‘right’ about how racist people are toward Asian people. You are right—they are racist toward Asian people. It is not okay,” she says, “but the immediate objective isn’t to educate the person who’s doing the harassing. Your goal is just to take care of that person who’s being harassed.” Also, she says, “you never want to harass the harasser. As a bystander, you really want to be the person who throws water on the fire.”You have lots of options for how to intervene safely. Emily May: “At Hollaback, we have what we call the ‘Five Ds’ of bystander intervention: distract (creating a distraction to de-escalate the situation), delegate (finding somebody else to help you intervene), document (creating documentation of that incident), delay (checking in on the person afterward), and then the last one is direct (setting a boundary, saying, ‘Hey, that’s racist, leave her alone,’ and then turning your attention to take care of the person experiencing the harassment).” Marita Etcubañez: “Some people might be comfortable taking the direct route, like stepping in and saying, ‘Hey, clearly, you’re making this person uncomfortable. You need to stand down’—not to get into a back-and-forth with them but just naming the behavior that’s problematic and hopefully getting the harasser to back off.…If it seems like someone might need help getting out of the situation, [you] could offer them your arm and help them exit, or cause a ruckus just to at least deflect the attention and maybe that could help to de-escalate the situation.”Sometimes just being present can make the difference Emily May: “If you don’t speak the same language, what we often will advise is to just go and stand next to that person who’s experiencing the harassment, just showing them that you’re physically there, that you support them. But if that doesn’t feel safe, our research with Cornell University showed that even as little as giving somebody a knowing glance can actually reduce trauma related to harassment, and that’s something that of course works across all languages.…Fundamentally, bystander intervention is just about people taking care of people.”Maria Haberfeld: “Don’t walk away. Don’t say, ‘It’s not my business.’ But just make sure that you’re keeping your own safety.”If things have gotten physical, be very careful about stepping in.Emily May: “The first thing you want to do as a bystander is really to assess your safety. In most situations where people see a physical assault or a sexual assault, they’re not going to feel safe directly intervening. So in those situations, you want to think, Is there something else that I can do? I would not recommend getting physically involved in these situations unless you’re specifically trained to do that.”Marita Etcubañez: “You definitely have to safeguard your own safety first, and then of course, during COVID-19, you probably don’t want to get too close. So even if you are verbally trying to intervene, you probably still want to do it at some distance.”Maria Haberfeld: “The best thing is to step back and call the police. You never know if the person has a gun or a knife on them. They might not be using it as they’re harassing somebody, but it’s very possible that they can use it on you if you’re trying to step in and help. Someone might think, I am an expert in martial arts, so I’ll be able to neutralize this person. But if the person pulls a knife or a gun, you can be a black belt and it won’t help. If there are two or three or four of you, then maybe there is room to intervene, but strength in numbers becomes irrelevant if the person pulls a gun on you.” Related Story The person being targeted may refuse help or have concerns about calling policeEmily May: “Unless it is a medical emergency and if the harassment is verbal, we advise people to touch base with the person experiencing the harassment before they call the police because many communities—communities of color, immigrant communities, trans communities—may not feel safer with police presence.”Marita Etcubañez: “There’s lots of reasons why someone might not want [the authorities involved]. Maybe they’re scared you’re going to call an ambulance and they can’t afford it. In that case, you might want to think about what other kind of assistance can you offer…see if there are other people who might be willing to help, or say, ‘Can I call someone for you?’”Remember: It’s not up to you to blast the encounter on social media, but documenting can be helpfulEmily May: “We just ask that you give the documentation to the person being harassed, to leave them the choice as to what they want to do with it next, and really give that power back to them.”Marita Etcubañez: “The point that we make with documenting [is] it’s not for you to broadcast that video on social media, but rather, give it to the person who was experiencing the harassment and let them decide what they want to do.…If they want to blast it out, that’s what could be really helpful for them, but they should be the ones to decide.”

TEXT 9:
articles\Tech Tent Is Arm the future of computing.txt

Simon Segars, head of Arm, in a cutout illustration against a Tech Tent brand backgroundWill Arm chips play a dominant role in powering advances in artificial intelligence? Can we find a faster way to build a quantum computer? And what is the secret to getting computers to think like humans?This week's Tech Tent explores big questions about the future of computing.
Podcast available now
Listen to the latest Tech Tent podcast on BBC Sounds
If you asked most people to name the most influential forces in the technology industry, it is unlikely that many would mention Arm, the chip designer founded in Cambridge 30 years ago.Yet its technology is in just about every mobile phone and in many of the sensors which are ushering in the "internet of things".Most of the recent headlines about Arm have centred on the regulatory concerns about its takeover by the leading chipmaker Nvidia. But as if to emphasise that it remains focused on innovation, the company this week unveiled its first new chip architecture in a decade.Arm's chief executive Simon Segars tells Tech Tent this is a signal of its ambitions in a computing future where everything is in the cloud."We're anticipating that pretty soon every piece of data that is shared touches an Arm [processor] along the way," he says.
Tech Tent: The new 'space race' for computer chips
EU seeks to supercharge computer chip production."We've been developing capabilities in our processor that allow more and more complex AI algorithms to be run on the processor itself," he explains - and the new chips will also have a focus on security.Dedicated AI chips are the next big thing in the semiconductor industry, with specialist companies like the UK's Graphcore already making an impact.Arm is hoping that Nvidia's technology and financial firepower will give it an edge.But looking further ahead, will it be much-hyped quantum computing that makes a real difference?
A quantum leap?
Giants such as Google, IBM and Microsoft have poured huge sums into quantum research. But some of the claims they've made about progress towards a working quantum computer that can tackle huge real-world problems have later appeared overblown.Yet two small British start-ups each touted a breakthrough this week.Quantum Motion, founded by academic researchers from Oxford and London, says it has found ways of using good-old-fashioned silicon chip technology to accelerate the production of qubits, the building blocks of a quantum computer."There are lots of weird and wonderful ways that people are trying to build quantum computers using exotic things like superconducting circuits or trapped ions in a vacuum," explains Prof John Morton, co-founder of Quantum Motion."What we're trying to do is to take the same kind of technology which is used to build the silicon chip in your smartphone... in order to build quantum computers that can really scale up to the level needed to solve the really big problems."
media captionWhat is quantum computing?
His doctoral student, quantum engineer Virginia Ciriano Tejel, gives us a flavour of the excitement she felt in the lab when she realised that one electron in a silicon transistor was exhibiting quantum properties."You're like, wow, I've measured something really, really small. That's fundamentally something from physics and from nature."If that is a breakthrough in building quantum computers, another British company - Cambridge Quantum Computing - believes it has shown just how revolutionary such a device could be.It announced this week what it called "ground-breaking proofs that reveal quantum computers can learn to reason under conditions of partial information and uncertainty."Dr Mattia Fiorentini, one of the scientists behind the research, says until now this kind of thinking, which comes naturally to humans, has been a challenge for computers.
Microsoft-led team retracts quantum 'breakthrough'
The coldest computers in the world
"Classical computers in particular, are very good at executing procedural tasks, they're not good at modelling probability, modelling uncertainty," he explains.But he says quantum computers will, by their nature, be capable of dealing with a range of probabilities - "so there seems to be a sort of natural match here."The hope is that this new type of computer will be able to perform well in areas where there is plenty of uncertainty, from diagnosing medical conditions from scans to predicting where financial markets are heading.A sceptic might point out that a working quantum computer capable of performing such tasks always seems about five years away. But researchers insist that progress is now accelerating."We can measure it and it's happening," says Mattia Fiorentini.So maybe we had better get ready for an era when a computer can diagnose any disease or play the stock market better than any human.

SUMMARY 9:
Simon Segars, head of Arm, in a cutout illustration against a Tech Tent brand backgroundWill Arm chips play a dominant role in powering advances in artificial intelligence? Can we find a faster way to build a quantum computer? And what is the secret to getting computers to think like humans?This week's Tech Tent explores big questions about the future of computing. Podcast available now Listen to the latest Tech Tent podcast on BBC Sounds If you asked most people to name the most influential forces in the technology industry, it is unlikely that many would mention Arm, the chip designer founded in Cambridge 30 years ago.Yet its technology is in just about every mobile phone and in many of the sensors which are ushering in the "internet of things".Most of the recent headlines about Arm have centred on the regulatory concerns about its takeover by the leading chipmaker Nvidia. But as if to emphasise that it remains focused on innovation, the company this week unveiled its first new chip architecture in a decade.Arm's chief executive Simon Segars tells Tech Tent this is a signal of its ambitions in a computing future where everything is in the cloud. "We're anticipating that pretty soon every piece of data that is shared touches an Arm [processor] along the way," he says. Tech Tent: The new 'space race' for computer chips EU seeks to supercharge computer chip production. "We've been developing capabilities in our processor that allow more and more complex AI algorithms to be run on the processor itself," he explains - and the new chips will also have a focus on security.Dedicated AI chips are the next big thing in the semiconductor industry, with specialist companies like the UK's Graphcore already making an impact.Arm is hoping that Nvidia's technology and financial firepower will give it an edge.But looking further ahead, will it be much-hyped quantum computing that makes a real difference? A quantum leap? Giants such as Google, IBM and Microsoft have poured huge sums into quantum research. But some of the claims they've made about progress towards a working quantum computer that can tackle huge real-world problems have later appeared overblown.Yet two small British start-ups each touted a breakthrough this week.Quantum Motion, founded by academic researchers from Oxford and London, says it has found ways of using good-old-fashioned silicon chip technology to accelerate the production of qubits, the building blocks of a quantum computer. "There are lots of weird and wonderful ways that people are trying to build quantum computers using exotic things like superconducting circuits or trapped ions in a vacuum," explains Prof John Morton, co-founder of Quantum Motion. "What we're trying to do is to take the same kind of technology which is used to build the silicon chip in your smartphone... in order to build quantum computers that can really scale up to the level needed to solve the really big problems." media captionWhat is quantum computing? His doctoral student, quantum engineer Virginia Ciriano Tejel, gives us a flavour of the excitement she felt in the lab when she realised that one electron in a silicon transistor was exhibiting quantum properties. "You're like, wow, I've measured something really, really small. That's fundamentally something from physics and from nature. "If that is a breakthrough in building quantum computers, another British company - Cambridge Quantum Computing - believes it has shown just how revolutionary such a device could be.It announced this week what it called "ground-breaking proofs that reveal quantum computers can learn to reason under conditions of partial information and uncertainty. "Dr Mattia Fiorentini, one of the scientists behind the research, says until now this kind of thinking, which comes naturally to humans, has been a challenge for computers. Microsoft-led team retracts quantum 'breakthrough' The coldest computers in the world "Classical computers in particular, are very good at executing procedural tasks, they're not good at modelling probability, modelling uncertainty," he explains.But he says quantum computers will, by their nature, be capable of dealing with a range of probabilities - "so there seems to be a sort of natural match here. "The hope is that this new type of computer will be able to perform well in areas where there is plenty of uncertainty, from diagnosing medical conditions from scans to predicting where financial markets are heading.A sceptic might point out that a working quantum computer capable of performing such tasks always seems about five years away. But researchers insist that progress is now accelerating. "We can measure it and it's happening," says Mattia Fiorentini.So maybe we had better get ready for an era when a computer can diagnose any disease or play the stock market better than any human.

TEXT 10:
articles\“I Don’t Scare Easily, but I Am Afraid” The Dangers of Being Asian American Right Now.txt

When coronavirus means fearing for your health while also fighting racism.
Snapshot, Black-and-white, Friendship, Eyewear, Photography, Illustration, Fun, Smile, Stock photography, Glasses, RAYDENE HANSEN
Most days, being Chinese American is a joy. I know how to make authentic zha jiang mian. I have a wealth of history and culture to learn from. I can understand the dialogue in Crazy Rich Asians without the subtitles. It’s a duality that I appreciate and honor.
But being Chinese in America during a global pandemic that’s now heavily referred to as the “Chinese virus”? It’s like stepping into an episode of Black Mirror where you’re the bad guy. In the past few weeks, I’ve been flooded with nonstop news alerts of how hate crimes against Asians have become a daily, if not hourly, occurrence. My ethnicity has become synonymous with a disease that has a skyrocketing death toll. Even stepping outside for groceries is terrifying as strangers approach me with hostility, asking where I’m from and demanding I leave food for those who aren’t “responsible” for the virus.
This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.
For all my brushes with racism in the past, they are nothing compared to the open terror that overwhelms me now. Racism no longer takes form in just insensitive jokes about eating dogs or having slanted eyes. It is now an active threat against me, my loved ones, and the millions of other Asian Americans in this country. I don’t consider myself someone who scares easily, but I am afraid now—for my own well-being and the millions of other Asians who live in America.
Jenna Ortega | Breakdown Breakdown | Cosmopolitan
My nationality has become synonymous with a disease that has a skyrocketing death toll.Since the spread of the COVID-19 virus, racist sentiments against Asians have increased exponentially. Asian people (some not even of Chinese heritage) around the world have reported harassment, with some cases even escalating to physical violence. Racist analogies of the coronavirus have trended on and off social media—largely due to President Trump’s use of terms like “kung flu.” The suggestion that Chinese people are responsible for the deadliest virus in recent history is not only inaccurate (as debunked by the World Health Organization) but also dangerous.
Language, as we know from history, has power. What may be reckless words to one person can easily be a call to violence to another. In the face of rising hate crimes against the Asian community, I had hoped our global leaders would curb such rhetoric. I was wrong; Trump has only doubled down on calling the COVID-19 virus the “Chinese virus,” despite many attempts to educate him otherwise. By ignoring the implications of language, Trump and his administration are not only feeding into rising racism against Asians but also legitimizing it.
I’m a Seattle Nurse During the COVID-19 Pandemic.We are already in enough of a fragile ecosystem without Trump’s irresponsibility adding an extra layer of panic. While the White House is making matters worse, I am fielding frantic text messages from my mother, who worries I will be the next victim listed in the news. Her anxiety is not unwarranted. I don’t want to think about what could happen the next time I leave my apartment, but it is on loop like a bad song. I know this, because it is on every Asian American’s mind these days. Like them, I am wondering when it will end.
This is not the first time an illness has been attached to an innocent group of people. Not too long ago, AIDS was commonly referred to as “gay-related immune deficiency” (GRID) or “gay cancer.” During the Ebola crisis, West Africans were blamed in a similar fashion. It is insufferably cruel that the people who have suffered the most from these illnesses are also the ones blamed for them. While Trump and his administration were twiddling their thumbs on prevention, I was receiving news of relatives in China who had contracted—and later died from—the COVID-19 virus.
While the White House is making matters worse, I am fielding frantic text messages from my mother, who worries I will be the next victim listed in the news.
This pandemic is personal. It has taken from me my normalcy, my family, and, now, my sense of safety. But while there’s little we can do against science, racism is and always has been a choice. People don’t casually stumble upon racism like one discovers a hidden talent. They are influenced by inflammatory messaging that paints people of color as “foreign,” “dangerous,” and “disease-ridden.” With the racist framing of the virus, I am also worried about how this will affect the perception of Asians in the long term when the United States already has such a fraught history with anti-Chinese sentiment.
But I can’t focus on that (even if only because my brain is already at capacity). As I write this, I know there are thousands of Asian medical professionals and service workers who are on the frontlines of this disease, despite the personal attacks they’re enduring as well. Their solidarity is one born out of a deep-rooted optimism that this country—and all of its people—is fundamentally worth fighting for.
This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.
Like you, they care about America. Now, it is time for America to care for them back by standing up to racism when they see it. I know it is never comfortable to call out injustice—particularly from those who are friends, family, or of authority—but right now, it is a necessity. I am Chinese, but I am American too. Even in my fear, I have to remember there is still love to be found and shared.
In the end, we are not a virus. We are not your enemy. We are your friends, neighbors, coworkers, and, above all, human beings who are deserving of respect and empathy. No matter what else this virus takes from us, I still believe that hope, in the company of compassion and empathy, spreads farther than hate.
SUMMARY 10:
You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. While the White House is making matters worse, I am fielding frantic text messages from my mother, who worries I will be the next victim listed in the news. When coronavirus means fearing for your health while also fighting racism. Snapshot, Black-and-white, Friendship, Eyewear, Photography, Illustration, Fun, Smile, Stock photography, Glasses, RAYDENE HANSEN Most days, being Chinese American is a joy. I know how to make authentic zha jiang mian. I have a wealth of history and culture to learn from. I can understand the dialogue in Crazy Rich Asians without the subtitles. It’s a duality that I appreciate and honor. But being Chinese in America during a global pandemic that’s now heavily referred to as the “Chinese virus”? It’s like stepping into an episode of Black Mirror where you’re the bad guy. In the past few weeks, I’ve been flooded with nonstop news alerts of how hate crimes against Asians have become a daily, if not hourly, occurrence. My ethnicity has become synonymous with a disease that has a skyrocketing death toll. Even stepping outside for groceries is terrifying as strangers approach me with hostility, asking where I’m from and demanding I leave food for those who aren’t “responsible” for the virus. This content is imported from {embed-name}. For all my brushes with racism in the past, they are nothing compared to the open terror that overwhelms me now. Racism no longer takes form in just insensitive jokes about eating dogs or having slanted eyes. It is now an active threat against me, my loved ones, and the millions of other Asian Americans in this country. I don’t consider myself someone who scares easily, but I am afraid now—for my own well-being and the millions of other Asians who live in America. Jenna Ortega | Breakdown Breakdown | Cosmopolitan My nationality has become synonymous with a disease that has a skyrocketing death toll.Since the spread of the COVID-19 virus, racist sentiments against Asians have increased exponentially. Asian people (some not even of Chinese heritage) around the world have reported harassment, with some cases even escalating to physical violence. Racist analogies of the coronavirus have trended on and off social media—largely due to President Trump’s use of terms like “kung flu.” The suggestion that Chinese people are responsible for the deadliest virus in recent history is not only inaccurate (as debunked by the World Health Organization) but also dangerous. Language, as we know from history, has power. What may be reckless words to one person can easily be a call to violence to another. In the face of rising hate crimes against the Asian community, I had hoped our global leaders would curb such rhetoric. I was wrong; Trump has only doubled down on calling the COVID-19 virus the “Chinese virus,” despite many attempts to educate him otherwise. By ignoring the implications of language, Trump and his administration are not only feeding into rising racism against Asians but also legitimizing it. I’m a Seattle Nurse During the COVID-19 Pandemic.We are already in enough of a fragile ecosystem without Trump’s irresponsibility adding an extra layer of panic. Her anxiety is not unwarranted. I don’t want to think about what could happen the next time I leave my apartment, but it is on loop like a bad song. I know this, because it is on every Asian American’s mind these days. Like them, I am wondering when it will end. This is not the first time an illness has been attached to an innocent group of people. Not too long ago, AIDS was commonly referred to as “gay-related immune deficiency” (GRID) or “gay cancer.” During the Ebola crisis, West Africans were blamed in a similar fashion. It is insufferably cruel that the people who have suffered the most from these illnesses are also the ones blamed for them. While Trump and his administration were twiddling their thumbs on prevention, I was receiving news of relatives in China who had contracted—and later died from—the COVID-19 virus. This pandemic is personal. It has taken from me my normalcy, my family, and, now, my sense of safety. But while there’s little we can do against science, racism is and always has been a choice. People don’t casually stumble upon racism like one discovers a hidden talent. They are influenced by inflammatory messaging that paints people of color as “foreign,” “dangerous,” and “disease-ridden.” With the racist framing of the virus, I am also worried about how this will affect the perception of Asians in the long term when the United States already has such a fraught history with anti-Chinese sentiment. But I can’t focus on that (even if only because my brain is already at capacity). As I write this, I know there are thousands of Asian medical professionals and service workers who are on the frontlines of this disease, despite the personal attacks they’re enduring as well. Their solidarity is one born out of a deep-rooted optimism that this country—and all of its people—is fundamentally worth fighting for. This content is imported from Twitter. Like you, they care about America. Now, it is time for America to care for them back by standing up to racism when they see it. I know it is never comfortable to call out injustice—particularly from those who are friends, family, or of authority—but right now, it is a necessity. I am Chinese, but I am American too. Even in my fear, I have to remember there is still love to be found and shared. In the end, we are not a virus. We are not your enemy. We are your friends, neighbors, coworkers, and, above all, human beings who are deserving of respect and empathy. No matter what else this virus takes from us, I still believe that hope, in the company of compassion and empathy, spreads farther than hate.

